
https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc263462.aspx




Configure outgoing email for a SharePoint 2013 farm

SharePoint 2013 Other Versions 
 
Applies to: SharePoint Foundation 2013, SharePoint Server 2013
Topic Last Modified: 2013-12-18
Summary: Learn how to install and configure the SMTP service and configure outgoing email for a SharePoint 2013 farm.
This article describes how to configure outgoing email for a farm or for a specific web application for SharePoint 2013. This article also describes how to install and configure the SMTP service that you must use to enable outgoing email.
After you have installed SharePoint 2013 and completed the initial configuration of your server farm, you can configure outgoing email. Doing so enables users to create alerts to track such site items as lists, libraries, and documents. In addition, site administrators can receive administrative messages about site administrator issues, such as the information that site owners have exceeded their specified storage space. For more information, see Plan outgoing email for a SharePoint farm in SharePoint 2013.
To configure outgoing email for a specific web application, first configure the default outgoing email for all web applications in the farm. If you configure the outgoing email for a specific web application, that configuration will override the default configuration for all web applications in the farm.
ImportantImportant:
You cannot configure outgoing email by using Windows PowerShell.
In this article:
Before you begin
To install the SMTP service
To install IIS 6.0 Management tools
To configure the SMTP service
To set the SMTP service to start automatically
To configure outgoing email for a farm by using Central Administration
To configure outgoing email for a specific web application by using Central Administration
Before you begin
NoteNote:
Because SharePoint 2013 runs as websites in Internet Information Services (IIS), administrators and users depend on the accessibility features that browsers provide. SharePoint 2013 supports the accessibility features of supported browsers. For more information, see the following resources:
Plan browser support
Accessibility for SharePoint 2013
Accessibility features in SharePoint 2013 Products
Keyboard shortcuts
Touch
Before you begin this operation, review the following information about prerequisites:
Your computer is running SharePoint 2013.
One or more servers in the server farm are running the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) service and have a valid SMTP server address. Alternatively, you must know the name of a server outside the farm that is running the SMTP service.
If you have not installed and configured the SMTP service, before you configure outgoing email you must complete the steps in:
Install and configure the SMTP service
Install and configure the SMTP service
Before you can enable outgoing email, you must determine which SMTP server to use. This SMTP server must be configured to allow anonymous SMTP email submissions. The SMTP server can be a server in the farm or outside the farm.
NoteNote:
If your organization does not allow anonymous SMTP email messages to be sent by using Exchange Server, you can use a local SMTP server in the SharePoint farm that accepts anonymous email messages. The local SMTP server automatically authenticates the messages and then forwards them to the computer that’s running Exchange Server.
Install the SMTP service
To install the SMTP service, use the Add Features Wizard in Server Manager. The wizard creates a default SMTP configuration. You can customize this default SMTP configuration to meet the requirements of your organization.
If you already have the SMTP service installed on a server, skip to Configure the SMTP service later in this article.
To install the SMTP service
Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Administrators group on the front-end web server.
Click Start, point to Administrative Tools, and then click Server Manager.
In Server Manager, click Features.
In Features Summary, click Add Features to open the Add Features Wizard.
On the Select Features page, select SMTP Server.
In the Add Features Wizard dialog box, click Add Required Roll Services, and then click Next.
On the Confirm Installation Selections page, click Install.
On the Installation Results page, ensure that the installation is complete, and then click Close.
Configure the SMTP service
After you install the SMTP service, you configure it to send email messages from servers in the farm.
You can decide to send relayed email messages to all servers except those that you specifically exclude. Alternatively, you can block messages to all servers except those that you specifically include. You can include servers individually or in groups by subnet or domain.
If you enable anonymous access and relayed email messages, you increase the possibility that the SMTP server will be used to relay unsolicited commercial email messages (spam). It is important to limit this possibility by carefully configuring mail servers to help protect against spam. One way that you can do this is by limiting relayed email messages to a list of specific servers or to a domain, and by preventing relayed email messages from all other servers.
NoteNote:
To manage the SMTP service on Windows Server 2008, you must use Internet Information Services (IIS) 6.0 Manager. Ensure that you install IIS 6.0 Management tools in Server Manager.
To install IIS 6.0 Management tools
Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Administrators group on the front-end web server.
Click Start, point to Administrative Tools, and then click Server Manager.
In Server Manager, click Roles.
In the Application Server section, click Add Role Services.
On the Select Role Services page, select Management Tools and IIS 6 Management compatibility, and then click Install.
To configure the SMTP service
Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Administrators group on the front-end web server.
Click Start, point to Administrative Tools, and then click Internet Information Services (IIS) 6.0 Manager.
In IIS Manager, expand the server name that contains the SMTP server that you want to configure.
Right-click the SMTP virtual server that you want to configure, and then click Start.
Right-click the SMTP virtual server that you want to configure, and then click Properties.
On the Access tab, in the Access control area, click Authentication.
In the Authentication dialog box, verify that Anonymous access is selected.
Click OK.
On the Access tab, in the Relay restrictions area, click Relay.
To enable relayed email messages to any server, click All except the list below.
To accept relayed email messages from one or more specific servers, follow these steps:
Click Only the list below.
Click Add, and then add servers one at a time by IP address, or in groups by using a subnet or domain.
Click OK to close the Computer dialog box.
Click OK to close the Relay Restrictions dialog box.
Click OK to close the Properties dialog box.
Ensure that the SMTP service is running and set to start automatically. To do this, use the following procedure.
To set the SMTP service to start automatically
Click Start, point to Administrative Tools, and then click Services.
In Services, right-click Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), and then select Properties.
In the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) Properties dialog box, on the General tab, in the Startup type list, select Automatic.
Click OK.
Configure outgoing email for a farm
You can configure outgoing email for a farm by using the SharePoint Central Administration website. Use the following procedures to configure outgoing email. After you complete the procedures, users can track changes and updates to individual site collections. In addition, site administrators can, for example, receive notices when users request access to a site.
To configure outgoing email for a farm by using Central Administration
Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Farm Administrators group on the server that is running the SharePoint Central Administration website.
In Central Administration, click System Settings.
On the System Settings page, in the E-Mail and Text Messages (SMS) section, click Configure outgoing e-mail settings.
On the Outgoing E-Mail Settings page, in the Mail Settings section, type the SMTP server name for outgoing email (for example, mail.example.com) in the Outbound SMTP server box.
In the From address box, type the email address as you want it to be displayed to email recipients.
In the Reply-to address box, type the email address to which you want email recipients to reply.
In the Character set list, select the character set that is appropriate for your language.
Click OK.
Configure outgoing email for a specific web application
You can configure outgoing email for a specific web application by using the Central Administration website. Use the following procedures to configure outgoing email.
NoteNote:
To configure outgoing email for a specific web application, first configure the default outgoing email for all web applications in the farm. If you configure the outgoing email for a specific web application, that configuration will override the default configuration for all web applications in the farm.
To configure outgoing email for a specific web application by using Central Administration
Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Farm Administrators group on the server that is running the SharePoint Central Administration website.
In Central Administration, in the Application Management section, click Manage web applications.
On the Web Applications Management page, select a web application, and then in the General Settings group on the ribbon, click Outgoing E-mail.
On the Web Application Outgoing E-Mail Settings page, in the Mail Settings section, type the name of the SMTP server for outgoing email (for example, mail.fabrikam.com) in the Outbound SMTP server box.
In the From address box, type the email address (for example, the site administrator alias) as you want it to be displayed to email recipients.
In the Reply-to address box, type the email address (for example, a help desk alias) to which you want email recipients to reply.
In the Character set list, click the character set that is appropriate for your language.
Click OK.
